[
    ['food is any substance consumed by an organism for nutritional support',
    'food is usually of plant animal or fungal origin and contains essential nutrients such as carbohydrates fats proteins vitamins or minerals',
    'the substance is ingested by an organism and assimilated by the organisms cells to provide energy maintain life or stimulate growth'],

    ['different species of animals have different feeding behaviours that satisfy the needs of their metabolisms and have evolved to fill a specific ecological niche within specific geographical contexts',
    'omnivorous humans are highly adaptable and have adapted to obtain food in many different ecosystems',
    'humans generally use cooking to prepare food for consumption'],

    ['the majority of the food energy required is supplied by the industrial food industry which produces food through intensive agriculture and distributes it through complex food processing and food distribution systems',
    'this system of conventional agriculture relies heavily on fossil fuels which means that the food and agricultural systems are one of the major contributors to climate change accounting for as much as 37 of total greenhouse gas emissions',
    'the food system has significant impacts on a wide range of other social and political issues including sustainability biological diversity economics population growth water supply and food security'],

    ['food safety and security are monitored by international agencies like the international association for food protection the world resources institute the world food programme the food and agriculture organization and the international food information council',
    'natural language processing nlp is an interdisciplinary subfield of computer science and information retrieval',
    'it is primarily concerned with giving computers the ability to support and manipulate human language'],
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    ['it involves processing natural language datasets such as text corpora or speech corpora using either rulebased or probabilistic i',
    'statistical and most recently neural networkbased machine learning approaches',
    'the goal is a computer capable of understandingcitation needed the contents of documents including the contextual nuances of the language within them'],

    ['to this end natural language processing often borrows ideas from theoretical linguistics',
    'the technology can then accurately extract information and insights contained in the documents as well as categorize and organize the documents themselves',
    'challenges in natural language processing frequently involve speech recognition naturallanguage understanding and naturallanguage generation']]



[['food is any substance consumed by an organism for nutritional support', 'food is usually of plant animal or fungal origin and contains essential nutrients such as carbohydrates fats proteins vitamins or minerals', 'the substance is ingested by an organism and assimilated by the organisms cells to provide energy maintain life or stimulate growth', 'different species of animals have different feeding behaviours that satisfy the needs of their metabolisms and have evolved to fill a specific ecological niche within specific geographical contexts', 'omnivorous humans are highly adaptable and have adapted to obtain food in many different ecosystems', 'humans generally use cooking to prepare food for consumption', 'the majority of the food energy required is supplied by the industrial food industry which produces food through intensive agriculture and distributes it through complex food processing and food distribution systems', 'this system of conventional agriculture relies heavily on fossil fuels which means that the food and agricultural systems are one of the major contributors to climate change accounting for as much as 37 of total greenhouse gas emissions', 'the food system has significant impacts on a wide range of other social and political issues including sustainability biological diversity economics population growth water supply and food security', 'food safety and security are monitored by international agencies like the international association for food protection the world resources institute the world food programme the food and agriculture organization and the international food information council']
['natural language processing nlp is an interdisciplinary subfield of computer science and information retrieval', 'it is primarily concerned with giving computers the ability to support and manipulate human language', 'it involves processing natural language datasets such as text corpora or speech corpora using either rulebased or probabilistic i', 'statistical and most recently neural networkbased machine learning approaches', 'the goal is a computer capable of understandingcitation needed the contents of documents including the contextual nuances of the language within them', 'to this end natural language processing often borrows ideas from theoretical linguistics', 'the technology can then accurately extract information and insights contained in the documents as well as categorize and organize the documents themselves', 'challenges in natural language processing frequently involve speech recognition naturallanguage understanding and naturallanguage generation']]
['food is any substance consumed by an organism for nutritional support.food is usually of plant animal or fungal origin and contains essential nutrients such as carbohydrates fats proteins vitamins or minerals.the substance is ingested by an organism and assimilated by the organisms cells to provide energy maintain life or stimulate growth.different species of animals have different feeding behaviours that satisfy the needs of their metabolisms and have evolved to fill a specific ecological niche within specific geographical contexts.omnivorous humans are highly adaptable and have adapted to obtain food in many different ecosystems.humans generally use cooking to prepare food for consumption.the majority of the food energy required is supplied by the industrial food industry which produces food through intensive agriculture and distributes it through complex food processing and food distribution systems.this system of conventional agriculture relies heavily on fossil fuels which means that the food and agricultural systems are one of the major contributors to climate change accounting for as much as 37 of total greenhouse gas emissions.the food system has significant impacts on a wide range of other social and political issues including sustainability biological diversity economics population growth water supply and food security.food safety and security are monitored by international agencies like the international association for food protection the world resources institute the world food programme the food and agriculture organization and the international food information council', 'natural language processing nlp is an interdisciplinary subfield of computer science and information retrieval.it is primarily concerned with giving computers the ability to support and manipulate human language.it involves processing natural language datasets such as text corpora or speech corpora using either rulebased or probabilistic i.statistical and most recently neural networkbased machine learning approaches.the goal is a computer capable of understandingcitation needed the contents of documents including the contextual nuances of the language within them.to this end natural language processing often borrows ideas from theoretical linguistics.the technology can then accurately extract information and insights contained in the documents as well as categorize and organize the documents themselves.challenges in natural language processing frequently involve speech recognition naturallanguage understanding and naturallanguage generation']


["Food is any substance consumed by an organism for nutritional support. Food is usually of plant, animal, or fungal origin and contains essential nutrients such as carbohydrates, fats, proteins, vitamins, or minerals. The substance is ingested by an organism and assimilated by the organism's cells to provide energy, maintain life, or stimulate growth. Different species of animals have different feeding behaviours that satisfy the needs of their metabolisms and have evolved to fill a specific ecological niche within specific geographical contexts. Omnivorous humans are highly adaptable and have adapted to obtain food in many different ecosystems. Humans generally use cooking to prepare food for consumption. The majority of the food energy required is supplied by the industrial food industry, which produces food through intensive agriculture and distributes it through complex food processing and food distribution systems. This system of conventional agriculture relies heavily on fossil fuels, which means that the food and agricultural systems are one of the major contributors to climate change, accounting for as much as 37% of total greenhouse gas emissions. The food system has significant impacts on a wide range of other social and political issues, including sustainability, biological diversity, economics, population growth, water supply, and food security. Food safety and security are monitored by international agencies like the International Association for Food Protection, the World Resources Institute, the World Food Programme, the Food and Agriculture Organization, and the International Food Information Council", 'Natural language processing (NLP) is an interdisciplinary subfield of computer science and information retrieval. It is primarily concerned with giving computers the ability to support and manipulate human language. It involves processing natural language datasets, such as text corpora or speech corpora, using either rule-based or probabilistic (i. statistical and, most recently, neural network-based) machine learning approaches. The goal is a computer capable of "understanding" the contents of documents, including the contextual nuances of the language within them. To this end, natural language processing often borrows ideas from theoretical linguistics. The technology can then accurately extract information and insights contained in the documents as well as categorize and organize the documents themselves. Challenges in natural language processing frequently involve speech recognition, natural-language understanding, and natural-language generation']

3 ["Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin (born 7 October 1952) is a Russian politician and former intelligence officer who is the president of Russia. Putin has held continuous positions as president or prime minister since 1999: as prime minister from 1999 to 2000 and from 2008 to 2012, and as president from 2000 to 2008 and since 2012. He is the longest-serving Russian or Soviet leader since Joseph Stalin. Putin worked as a KGB foreign intelligence officer for 16 years, rising to the rank of lieutenant colonel before resigning in 1991 to begin a political career in Saint Petersburg. In 1996, he moved to Moscow to join the administration of President Boris Yeltsin. He briefly served as the director of the Federal Security Service (FSB) and then as secretary of the Security Council of Russia before being appointed prime minister in August 1999. Following Yeltsin's resignation, Putin became acting president and, in less than four months, was elected to his first term as president. He was reelected in 2004. Due to constitutional limitations of two consecutive presidential terms, Putin served as prime minister again from 2008 to 2012 under Dmitry Medvedev. He returned to the presidency in 2012, following an election marked by allegations of fraud and protests, and was reelected in 2018",
 'Turin (/tjʊəˈrɪn, ˈtjʊərɪn/ ture-IN, TURE-in, Italian: Torino, Italian) is a city and an important business and cultural centre in Northern Italy. It is the capital city of Piedmont and of the Metropolitan City of Turin, and was the first Italian capital from 1861 to 1865. The city is mainly on the western bank of the Po River, below its Susa Valley, and is surrounded by the western Alpine arch and Superga hill. The population of the city proper is 843,514 (31 October 2023), while the population of the urban area is estimated by Eurostat to be 1. 7 million inhabitants. The Turin metropolitan area is estimated by the OECD to have a population of 2. 2 million. The city was historically a major European political centre. From 1563, it was the capital of the Duchy of Savoy, then of the Kingdom of Sardinia ruled by the House of Savoy, and the first capital of the Kingdom of Italy from 1861 to 1865. Turin is sometimes called "the cradle of Italian liberty" for having been the political and intellectual centre of the Risorgimento that led to the unification of Italy, as well as the birthplace of notable individuals who contributed to it, such as Camillo Benso, Count of Cavour. Although much of its political influence had been lost by World War II, having been a centre of anti-fascist movements during the Ventennio fascista including the Italian resistance movement, Turin became a major European crossroad for industry, commerce and trade, and is part of the industrial triangle along with Milan and Genoa. It is ranked third in Italy, after Milan and Rome, for economic strength',
 "With a GDP of $58 billion, the city is the world's 78th richest by purchasing power. Apple Inc. (formerly Apple Computer, Inc. ) is an American multinational corporation and technology company headquartered in Cupertino, California, in Silicon Valley. It designs, develops, and sells consumer electronics, computer software, and online services. Devices include the iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Watch, Vision Pro, and Apple TV; operating systems include iOS, iPadOS, and macOS; and software applications and services include iTunes, iCloud, Apple Music, and Apple TV+. For most of 2011 to 2024, Apple became the world's largest company by market capitalization until Microsoft assumed the position in January 2024. In 2022, Apple was the largest technology company by revenue, with US$394. 3 billion. As of 2023, Apple was the fourth-largest personal computer vendor by unit sales, the largest manufacturing company by revenue, and the largest vendor of mobile phones in the world. It is one of the Big Five American information technology companies, alongside Alphabet (the parent company of Google), Amazon, Meta (the parent company of Facebook), and Microsoft. Apple was founded as Apple Computer Company on April 1, 1976, to produce and market Steve Wozniak's Apple I personal computer. The company was incorporated by Wozniak and Steve Jobs in 1977. Its second computer, the Apple II, became a best seller as one of the first mass-produced microcomputers. Apple introduced the Lisa in 1983 and the Macintosh in 1984, as some of the first computers to use a graphical user interface and a mouse. By 1985, the company's internal problems included the high cost of its products and power struggles between executives. That year Jobs left Apple to form NeXT, Inc. , and Wozniak withdrew to other ventures. The market for personal computers expanded and evolved throughout the 1990s, and Apple lost considerable market share to the lower-priced Wintel duopoly of the Microsoft Windows operating system on Intel-powered PC clones"]


3 ['Sport is a form of physical activity or game. Often competitive and organized, sports use, maintain, or improve physical ability and skills. They also provide enjoyment to participants and, in some cases, entertainment to spectators. Many sports exist, with different participant numbers, some are done by a single person with others being done by hundreds. Most sports take place either in teams or competing as individuals. Some sports allow a "tie" or "draw", in which there is no single winner; others provide tie-breaking methods to ensure one winner. A number of contests may be arranged in a tournament format, producing a champion. Many sports leagues make an annual champion by arranging games in a regular sports season, followed in some cases by playoffs. Sport is generally recognised as system of activities based in physical athleticism or physical dexterity, with major competitions admitting only sports meeting this definition. Some organisations, such as the Council of Europe, preclude activities without any physical element from classification as sports. However, a number of competitive, but non-physical, activities claim recognition as mind sports. The International Olympic Committee who oversee the Olympic Games recognises both chess and bridge as sports. SportAccord, the international sports federation association, recognises five non-physical sports: bridge, chess, draughts, Go and xiangqi. However, they limit the number of mind games which can be admitted as sports',
 "Sport is usually governed by a set of rules or customs, which serve to ensure fair competition. Winning can be determined by physical events such as scoring goals or crossing a line first. It can also be determined by judges who are scoring elements of the sporting performance, including objective or subjective measures such as technical performance or artistic impression. Basketball is a team sport in which two teams, most commonly of five players each, opposing one another on a rectangular court, compete with the primary objective of shooting a basketball (approximately 9. 4 inches (24 cm) in diameter) through the defender's hoop (a basket 18 inches (46 cm) in diameter mounted 10 feet (3. 048 m) high to a backboard at each end of the court), while preventing the opposing team from shooting through their own hoop. A field goal is worth two points, unless made from behind the three-point line, when it is worth three. After a foul, timed play stops and the player fouled or designated to shoot a technical foul is given one, two or three one-point free throws. The team with the most points at the end of the game wins, but if regulation play expires with the score tied, an additional period of play (overtime) is mandated. Players advance the ball by bouncing it while walking or running (dribbling) or by passing it to a teammate, both of which require considerable skill. On offense, players may use a variety of shots – the layup, the jump shot, or a dunk; on defense, they may steal the ball from a dribbler, intercept passes, or block shots; either offense or defense may collect a rebound, that is, a missed shot that bounces from rim or backboard. It is a violation to lift or drag one's pivot foot without dribbling the ball, to carry it, or to hold the ball with both hands then resume dribbling",
  'Football is a family of team sports that involve, to varying degrees, kicking a ball to score a goal. Unqualified, the word football normally means the form of football that is the most popular where the word is used. Sports commonly called football include association football (known as soccer in Australia, Canada, South Africa, the United States, and sometimes in Ireland and New Zealand); Australian rules football; Gaelic football; gridiron football (specifically American football, Arena football, or Canadian football); International rules football; rugby league football; and rugby union football. These various forms of football share, to varying degrees, common origins and are known as "football codes". There are a number of references to traditional, ancient, or prehistoric ball games played in many different parts of the world. Contemporary codes of football can be traced back to the codification of these games at English public schools during the 19th century, itself an outgrowth of medieval football. The expansion and cultural power of the British Empire allowed these rules of football to spread to areas of British influence outside the directly controlled Empire. By the end of the 19th century, distinct regional codes were already developing: Gaelic football, for example, deliberately incorporated the rules of local traditional football games in order to maintain their heritage. In 1888, the Football League was founded in England, becoming the first of many professional football associations. During the 20th century, several of the various kinds of football grew to become some of the most popular team sports in the world']

3 ['Sport is a form of physical activity or game. Often competitive and organized, sports use, maintain, or improve physical ability and skills. They also provide enjoyment to participants and, in some cases, entertainment to spectators. Many sports exist, with different participant numbers, some are done by a single person with others being done by hundreds. Most sports take place either in teams or competing as individuals. Some sports allow a "tie" or "draw", in which there is no single winner; others provide tie-breaking methods to ensure one winner. A number of contests may be arranged in a tournament format, producing a champion. Many sports leagues make an annual champion by arranging games in a regular sports season, followed in some cases by playoffs. Sport is generally recognised as system of activities based in physical athleticism or physical dexterity, with major competitions admitting only sports meeting this definition. Some organisations, such as the Council of Europe, preclude activities without any physical element from classification as sports. However, a number of competitive, but non-physical, activities claim recognition as mind sports. The International Olympic Committee who oversee the Olympic Games recognises both chess and bridge as sports. SportAccord, the international sports federation association, recognises five non-physical sports: bridge, chess, draughts, Go and xiangqi. However, they limit the number of mind games which can be admitted as sports. Sport is usually governed by a set of rules or customs, which serve to ensure fair competition',
 "Winning can be determined by physical events such as scoring goals or crossing a line first. It can also be determined by judges who are scoring elements of the sporting performance, including objective or subjective measures such as technical performance or artistic impression. Basketball is a team sport in which two teams, most commonly of five players each, opposing one another on a rectangular court, compete with the primary objective of shooting a basketball (approximately 9. 4 inches (24 cm) in diameter) through the defender's hoop (a basket 18 inches (46 cm) in diameter mounted 10 feet (3. 048 m) high to a backboard at each end of the court), while preventing the opposing team from shooting through their own hoop. A field goal is worth two points, unless made from behind the three-point line, when it is worth three. After a foul, timed play stops and the player fouled or designated to shoot a technical foul is given one, two or three one-point free throws. The team with the most points at the end of the game wins, but if regulation play expires with the score tied, an additional period of play (overtime) is mandated. Players advance the ball by bouncing it while walking or running (dribbling) or by passing it to a teammate, both of which require considerable skill. On offense, players may use a variety of shots – the layup, the jump shot, or a dunk; on defense, they may steal the ball from a dribbler, intercept passes, or block shots; either offense or defense may collect a rebound, that is, a missed shot that bounces from rim or backboard. It is a violation to lift or drag one's pivot foot without dribbling the ball, to carry it, or to hold the ball with both hands then resume dribbling. Football is a family of team sports that involve, to varying degrees, kicking a ball to score a goal",
  'Unqualified, the word football normally means the form of football that is the most popular where the word is used. Sports commonly called football include association football (known as soccer in Australia, Canada, South Africa, the United States, and sometimes in Ireland and New Zealand); Australian rules football; Gaelic football; gridiron football (specifically American football, Arena football, or Canadian football); International rules football; rugby league football; and rugby union football. These various forms of football share, to varying degrees, common origins and are known as "football codes". There are a number of references to traditional, ancient, or prehistoric ball games played in many different parts of the world. Contemporary codes of football can be traced back to the codification of these games at English public schools during the 19th century, itself an outgrowth of medieval football. The expansion and cultural power of the British Empire allowed these rules of football to spread to areas of British influence outside the directly controlled Empire. By the end of the 19th century, distinct regional codes were already developing: Gaelic football, for example, deliberately incorporated the rules of local traditional football games in order to maintain their heritage. In 1888, the Football League was founded in England, becoming the first of many professional football associations. During the 20th century, several of the various kinds of football grew to become some of the most popular team sports in the world']
